Helium-3 installation, profile migration and return to mainline

INSTALL

Download the signed, notarized Apple Silicon app from:
https://lcabraja.github.io/helium/

Requires macOS 15 or later. Unzip the download and drag Helium-3.app into
Applications. Keep your existing Helium.app. Before the first normal launch,
use the migration command below if you want your existing profile copied over.

MAINLINE HELIUM TO HELIUM-3

Run in Terminal on the Mac whose profile you want to copy:

curl -fL https://lcabraja.github.io/helium/scripts/backup-helium.sh -o "$HOME/Downloads/backup-helium.sh" && /bin/bash "$HOME/Downloads/backup-helium.sh" --migrate-to helium-3

When prompted, quit every Helium app with Cmd+Q. Leave them closed until the
script prints Finished. It does not close apps for you. No sudo, Homebrew,
Python or third-party package is required.

The script first saves a verified ZIP and SHA-256 file in a dated folder in
Downloads. It then installs that verified staging copy into Helium-3. The original
mainline profile stays where it was. Any previous Helium-3 profile is renamed
beside itself with a before-migration suffix; MIGRATION.txt records its path.

Open Helium-3 from Applications. If macOS asks for the Helium Storage Key,
approve access for this signed app using your Mac login password. Always Allow
remembers the choice. Check tabs, bookmarks, extensions and logins. If your
saved tabs do not reopen, use History > Recently Closed or Cmd+Shift+T.
Then you can set Helium-3 as your default browser in its settings.

RETURN WITHOUT BRINGING BACK NEW HELIUM-3 DATA

Quit Helium-3 and open the original Helium.app. Its original profile is still
there. No script is needed. Browsing done after the switch stays in Helium-3.

REVERSE MIGRATION, INCLUDING NEW HELIUM-3 DATA

Update mainline Helium first, then quit both browsers. Run:

curl -fL https://lcabraja.github.io/helium/scripts/backup-helium.sh -o "$HOME/Downloads/backup-helium.sh" && /bin/bash "$HOME/Downloads/backup-helium.sh" --reverse-from helium-3

This backs up the current Helium-3 profile in Downloads, preserves the current
mainline profile under a before-migration name, and installs a complete copy of
Helium-3's profile for mainline. It replaces the active profile as a whole;
the two browsing histories are not merged. Helium-3's source profile stays intact.
After Finished, open the original Helium.app and check your data.

The script refuses reverse migration if mainline Chromium is older than the
source profile. Update mainline and retry, or use the untouched original profile.
Fork-specific features such as container tabs are unavailable in mainline;
keep the Helium-3 copy if you need to return to those features.

BACKUP ONLY AND ALIASES

Omit the migration/reverse option to back up mainline without copying anywhere.
The old --migrate-to fork spelling still means Helium-3.
The separate experimental User Scripts app uses --migrate-to user-scripts or
--reverse-from user-scripts. That test app has automatic updates disabled.
Use --help for custom source and output directory options.

WHAT IS SAVED

Complete user-data directories:
  Mainline:     ~/Library/Application Support/net.imput.helium
  Helium-3:     ~/Library/Application Support/eu.cabraja.helium
  User Scripts: ~/Library/Application Support/eu.cabraja.helium.userscripts

Every on-disk profile and Local State is included: saved sessions, bookmarks,
extensions, preferences and site data. Incognito state held only in memory is
not included. Only process locks and DevToolsActivePort are omitted from copies.
The rename to Helium-3 does not change the existing fork's profile directory,
bundle identifier, signing team or automatic-update feed.

The script compares file contents, verifies the ZIP, and writes a checksum and
restore instructions. Failed operations can leave partial backup folders; only
Finished indicates success. Allow disk space for a profile copy and ZIP.
When Downloads and the destination share a filesystem, migration moves the
completed staging copy into place without making another full copy. Backups
on a separate volume still require space for a copy on the destination volume.
Existing destination folders are preserved.

RESUME AFTER AN INTERRUPTED MIGRATION

If the script printed Verified backup but failed while preparing the destination,
keep the ZIP and the hidden .work/Profile inside that same backup folder. Quit
all Helium apps. Download the latest script, then run:

bash "$HOME/Downloads/backup-helium.sh" --resume-backup "/absolute/path/to/Helium-profile-backup-DATE.SUFFIX" --migrate-to helium-3

Use the exact backup folder from your earlier output. Resume checks the ZIP's
checksum and integrity, and compares the complete staging copy against the
closed source profile before installing it. It does not make another backup.
If you have browsed since the failed attempt and the source changed, resume
refuses to install the old snapshot. Free space and make a fresh backup instead.
For reverse migration, use --reverse-from helium-3 with --resume-backup.

Older scripts could leave a second, incomplete copy inside a hidden directory
named .helium-profile-copy.SUFFIX beside the destination. Once you have checked
your verified ZIP, remove only the exact incomplete scratch directory named in
that failure to reclaim space. Do not remove the original profile, destination,
ZIP, or the backup folder's .work/Profile. Resume does not delete old scratch
directories automatically.

The backup contains private browser data and is not encrypted as an archive.
Nothing is uploaded. No Keychain secret is read or exported. On the same Mac
and macOS account, the fork uses the existing Helium Storage Key. Moving the
ZIP alone to another Mac does not transfer that key or all OS-protected credentials.

RESTORE A PARTICULAR BACKUP

Quit all Helium apps. Extract the ZIP; its Profile folder is the complete
user-data directory. Rename an existing destination aside, then put Profile at
that destination. Keep the old folder and backup until you have checked your
restored data. Use a browser version at least as new as the backed-up profile.
